# Laura Martin Curriculum Vitae

Contact: [surminus.com](https://www.surminus.com)

GitHub: [surminus](https://github.com/surminus)

Mail: [work@surminus.com](mailto:work@surminus.com)

Twitter: [@surminus](https://twitter.com/surminus)

## About Me

I’m an experienced operations engineer with a focus on automation and tooling.
Most of my career has been spent working with Linux systems, and I cut my teeth
working in customer facing support.

I enjoy writing tools in Ruby, Go, and occasionally Bash. I've worked with
continuous integration (CI) and deployment systems, and have a strong interest
in using automation to solve problems.

Much of my work in the last few years has been in an AWS environment. I feel
comfortable working within the huge Amazon ecosystem and using the AWS SDK.

I have several years’ experience of Terraform, and recently spent time working
with containers, specifically with Amazon ECS.

In the future, I’d love to work on platforms with either Kubernetes or
serverless technologies. I’m interested in expanding my horizons in terms of
platform scale, and continuing to improve my software development skillset.

## March 2018–present: Site Reliability Engineer for [FutureLearn](https://www.futurelearn.com)

As the sole SRE at FutureLearn, I am responsible for improving the development
workflow, the CI and deployment methods, and the core infrastructure of the
site.

Achievements in this role:

  * Gave regular technical lightning talks and interactive workshops aimed at
    ensuring that software engineers, technical leads, and technical architects
    are also able to support and improve the platform.
  * Sped up the overall build time for the main application by decreasing test
    times from ~15m to ~5m, greatly reducing the development feedback loop.
  * Built, configured, and migrated to a new CI system to replace the out-of-date
    system previously in use.
  * Unified all infrastructure code into Terraform and replaced manual
    provisioning tasks with automated instance bootstrapping. This saved
    operational support cost and reduced the complexity and number of tools
    involved in making changes to the stack.
  * Wrote a command-line tool in Go for developers to ease deployments and allow
    working with SSH, AWS, CI, Datadog, Docker, and more.
  * Upgraded the servers from Ubuntu 14.04 to Ubuntu 18.04.
  * Modernised the platform by migrating from EC2 based deployments to Amazon
    ECS, focusing on scalability and simplicity while balancing the need for
    lower cost of ownership by moving to higher value managed services.
  * Scaled the platform to handle an unexpected spike in traffic during COVID-19,
    going from ~200 req/s to ~600 req/s.

## January 2017–March 2018: Senior Web Operations Engineer for [the Government Digital Service](https://gds.blog.gov.uk/)

As technical lead for GOV.UK Infrastructure, I led a team of web operations
engineers and software engineers, and worked alongside the delivery and product
managers in moving GOV.UK toward a modern infrastructure. GOV.UK is made up of
over 50 microservices, mostly using Ruby on Rails, and the platform includes
MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Elasticsearch, Jenkins (deployment and CI),
Varnish, NGINX, and Redis. It is a critical national resource, and so it is
essential that the general public are able to reliably access content published
on the site.

Achievements in this role:

  * Enabled software engineers to deploy code as quickly and safely as possible
    on the current platform, while maintaining and improving the infrastructure
    and increasing automation and self-healing. This allowed my team to
    concentrate on improvements rather than maintenance.
  * Collaborated with other technical leads, delivery managers, and product
    managers to ensure we were targeting the right goals, and provided guidance
    and advice based on my experience.
  * Worked with technical architects to provide the vision for the future of the
    platform, which included highly available, ephemeral, and dynamic
    infrastructure and a transition from self-hosted to cloud native services.

## May 2014–January 2017: Web Operations Engineer for [the Government Digital Service](https://gds.blog.gov.uk/)

This position involved maintaining and supporting the ongoing needs of the
evolving GOV.UK infrastructure. As part of this, I provided out-of-hours and
in-office second-line support.

Achievements in this role:

  * Worked in a multi-disciplinary team, responding to both technical and
    business needs.
  * Made substantial contributions and improvements to our Puppet code.
  * Planned and contributed to a number of improvements to functions such as
    monitoring, logging, CI, deployment, backups, and disaster recovery.

## June 2008–May 2014: Linux Systems Administrator for
[Pulsant](https://www.pulsant.com) (formerly [DediPower Managed
Hosting](https://www.theregister.com/2011/10/04/lumison_acquires_dedipower/))

I joined DediPower as an intern on work experience, and was then hired full
time as part of the systems administration team, working with customers, other
members of the support team, and other parts of the business including the
networking, sales, datacentre, and provisioning teams. Our services were
primarily Linux-based, but we also supported a wide range of systems including
Windows, VMWare, Cisco firewalls, and server hardware.

Achievements in this role:

  * Worked my way up from the lowest to the highest level of support.
  * Supported all customers with extensive on-call coverage, often responding to
    and fixing issues from customers we’d had very little experience with
    previously, along with being a point of contact for larger and more complex
    systems.
  * Provided technical guidance and ensured efficient knowledge sharing with new
    hires during a period of rapid growth from a dozen to over 60 people.
  * As an intern, helped to build one of our datacentres, including the initial
    power cabling, air conditioning implementation, networking, and full rack
    placement.
